.\"
.hys 50
.TH "do-diffs" "1" "13 Jan 2001"
.SH NAME
do-diffs \- run rancid for each of the groups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B do-diffs
[group [group ...]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B do-diffs
is a
.IR sh (1)
script to run
.IR rancid (1)
for a set of rancid group(s).
.PP
.B do-diffs
reads
.BR env (5)
to configure itself, then uses
.IR control_rancid (1)
to run
.IR rancid (1)
for each rancid group.  The set of rancid groups can either be provided
as command-line arguments or via the
.I LIST_OF_GROUPS
variable in
.BR env (5),
if the group argument is omitted.
.PP
A lock file is maintained per-group to prevent simultaneous runs for a given
group by
.IR do-diffs (1).
The lock file will be named
.IR .<group>.run.lock
and will be located in
.IR $TMPDIR
(see below).
.PP
A log file is produced under
.IR $BASEDIR/logs
for each rancid group processed.  The file name will be <group>.YYYYMMDD.HHMMSS
(year month day . hour minute second).
.PP
.B do-diffs
is normally used to run rancid from
.BR cron (8).
For example:
.PP
.in +1i
.nf
0 * * * *      /usr/local/rancid/bin/do-diffs
.fi
.in -1i
.\"
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B do-diffs
utilizes the following environment variables from
.BR env (5).
.\"
.TP
.B BASEDIR
Location of group directories, etc.
.\"
.TP
.B LIST_OF_GROUPS
List of rancid groups to collect.
.\"
.TP
.B PATH
Search path for utilities.
.\"
.TP
.B TMPDIR
Directory to hold temporary and lock files.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B $BASEDIR/bin/env
.B do-diffs
configuration file.
.El
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR control_rancid (1),
.BR env (5)
