.\"
.Dd January 16, 2001
.Dt router.db 5
.Sh NAME
.Nm router.db
.Nd rancid group configuration file
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
contains information for devices which are members of a rancid group.
.Ic control_rancid(1)
reads this file to compile a list of devices which it should collect.
.\"
.Sh SYNTAX
One device is listed per-line, where the syntax is:
.Pp
.D1 <device_name>:<device_type>:<state>
.Pp
For example:
.D1 scooby.shrubbery.net:cisco:up
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width flag
.\"
.It <device_name>
The name of the device, which must resolve via
.Fn "gethostbyname" ,
used as the argument to
.Ic "telnet(1)" ,
.Ic "rsh(1)" ,
or
.Ic "ssh(1)" ,
to connect to the device.  Once mashed to lower-case, this
also becomes the name of the file used to store the configuration under
.Pa "$BASEDIR/<group>/configs" .
.Pp
Experience shows that the device's FQDN (Fully Qualified Domain Name) works
best, as in the example above.
.\"
.It <device_type>
The type of device from the set:
.Bl -tag -width foundry
.It cat5
A cisco catalyst switch (ie: running the catalyst OS, not IOS).
.It cisco
A cisco router or switch such as the 3500XL or 6000 running IOS (or IOS-like)
OS.
.It ezt3
An ADC-Kentrox EZ-T3 mux.
.It foundry
A Foundry router, switch, or router-switch.
.It juniper
A Juniper router.
.It redback
A Redback router, NAS, etc.
.El
.\"
.It <state>
The state is either "up" or "down.  If the device is marked "down", it's
configuration will not be collected.
.El
.Pp
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width .BASEDIR/group/ -compact
.It $BASEDIR/<group>/router.db
Configuration file described here, where <group> is a device group name
defined in
.Ev LIST_OF_GROUPS
of
.Pa "$BASEDIR/bin/env" .
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr control_rancid 1 ,
.Xr env 5 ,
.Xr rancid 1
